Unrequited Narcissism
#####################
:date: 2010-11-29 05:41:00
:author: jjangsangy
:category: text
:tags: Narcissism, beauty, echo, narcissus, greek mythology, love
:slug: 2010-11-29-unrequited-narcissism

For some reason, I've been thinking a lot about The Story of Narcissus.
It's been itching my mind for some time now, because to be frank, the
story doesn't make sense.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

If you don't know The Story of Narcissus. In a brief summary, Narcissus
is a greek myth about the effect of beauty, and love for oneself.
Narcissus was a son of a nymph, born very handsome, every girl fell in
love with him at first sight. Hardened by their love, he believed no one
worthy of his affection. One day, while walking in a forest, Narcissus
was followed by a mountain nymph named Echo. Upon hearing Echo's
pursuit, Narcissus yelled out "Who's There?". Unable to speak first,
Echo replied "Who's There?" In time, Echo showed herself, professing her
undying love. However, heart still hardened, Narcissus would not accept
Echo's love and shattered her affection to pieces. In response, Nemesis,
the god of hubris and vengeful fate, put a curse on Narcissus. That once
Narcissus looked upon a pond, he fell in love with his own reflection.
Unable to leave the pond, Narcissus withered away and died, and where
his body left, grew the Narcissus flower.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

The word "Narcissism" now refers to people who love themselves more than
others, and the the story became an immortal symbol for
self-propagated adoration.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

However, I don't agree with this idea. **My problem with this story, is
that the main theme isn't self-adoration, but is the destructive
properties of beauty.** Dying of self-adoration is a fitting punishment,
yet, it isn't the main point. Let me elaborate.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

Narcissus is a symbol of raw beauty in the world.  He is appealing to
the eye, and attains shallow raw admiration from all who he meets.
However, pride has captured his heart and that has numbed his senses
from being able to differentiate between shallow and deep affection.
Even in the sight of Echo, he is unable to distinguish between what is
true love. In greek, the word Narcissus is derived from Narke, which
means to sleep, or to be numb. **The problem of those who have been
blessed with the gift of beauty, is their numbness to it.** The storys
ending treads a ominous path. It is only fitting that, unable to
understand the value of beauty, he fall victim to it.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

**This is the dilemma of unrequited narcissism. For those who have
fallen beyond the scope of beauty and aestheticism, they are yet just an
Echo, a clanging sound in the mist of an orchestra.**



.. raw:: html

   </p>

**From what I gain from this story, is a realization that we chase
dearly for beauty, yet not knowing how much it causes us to wither
away.** For those who play the role of Narcissus, humility is the key.
For those who play the role of Echo, it maybe time to re-evaluate and
move on. But for most of us, who resonate with both these characters, it
is important to realize these perspectives, and act accordingly.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

**Beauty if beauty's own reward, however fulfilling it is dependent on
ones own decision.**



.. raw:: html

   </p>

One of my favorite aspects of greek mythology, is that although it is
thousands of years old, we are still affected by these themes everyday.
Classic literature is soo inspiring, hopefully I'll get to read more as
time goes by.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

