Love is Better than Salt
########################
:date: 2010-06-16 05:01:57
:author: jjangsangy
:category: text
:slug: 2010-06-16-love-is-better-than-salt

One thing that I regret not being able to do within the interim of my
studies is reading for pure enjoyment. It was only during college when I
sacrificed pleasure reading in order to make room for my studies. But
ironically, my engagement in sacrifice only led to the detriment of my
intellectual pursuits rather than expanding them. So upon coming home, I
made a quick trip to the book store and caroused through the shelves and
picked up something interesting. Reading through little snippets of
literature made me realized how much I was missing out, and how bland
the dialogue inside my brain had become. The book I picked out was
"Salt" by Mark Kurlansky, and I recall my high school humanities teacher
once discussing it at the beginning of my senior year. So I picked it
up, and while reading the end of the introduction, I came upon this
passage.



"But while a love story is timeless, the story of a quest for wealth,
given enough time, will always seem like the vain pursuit of a mirage"



Upon reading that, I quickly made up my mind that this was going to be
the book.



Now to preface the conclusion that I am going to reach, there are things
in this world that we want because we don't have them, and there are
things that we inherently desire forever. Salt, oil, money, fame,
friends, we search for primarily because we don't have, or feel as if we
are inadequate to procure the amount of our desires. Now whether our
desires are limited or unlimited is impertinent, but something like love
is of the later category. We desire the affections of others, not
because we lack them, but because it is inherent in our nature to search
for it. In order to exemplify this, I'll start out with an example of
salt.



When the word salt comes to mind, many people think of this



 |image0| 



The first thing that comes to mind is simple table salt, and I think
it's quite the ignorance of modern culture to replace something as
important and historic as salt with a girl in a yellow dress. This
reminds me of a french folktale which relates the story of a princess
who declares to her father, "I love you like salt," and the father,
angered by the slight, banishes her from the kingdom. Only later when he
is denied salt does he realize its value and therefore the depth of his
daughters love. Salt is so common, so easy to obtain, and so inexpensive
that we have forgotten that from the beginning of civilization until
about 100 years ago, salt was one of the most sought-after commodities
in human history. So as of now, the thousands of years of culture and
bloodshed made in the preservation of salt, the wars fought on its
behalf, and peoples diligence in obtaining it, we cannot commiserate on
their behalf because salt is a commodity wherein its value is calculated
from its abundance. So now, we are only left with the girl in a yellow
dress and a remnant of a salty taste in our mouths.



In the same way, oil, money and fame, have a similar destinations as
salt. The wars we have fought in procuring oil, and the money that goes
into filling our gas tanks will be thought of as petty quarrels when oil
has been replaced with an alternative fuel and monetary inflation causes
our dollars to become worthless. In fact, it is because we wish to value
these commodities, that the commodities have any value. None of these
things have actual inherent value, which is why the paradigm to procure
them have no inherent meaning.



So what is the whole point of this long late night ramble. What I've
come to realize is that many people who know exactly what they want to
do with their lives are following the wrong paradigm. They proceed to
seek out the commodities in which we have placed relative meaning while
they forget to seek out the things which have absolute meaning. Things
like love, happiness, and especially God are placed secondary and are
most of the times sacrificed. I quote James, in a passage where he
addresses the same thing.



"Now listen, you who say, 'Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that
city, spend a year there, carry on business and make money.' Why, you do
not even know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? You are a
mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes." 



-James 4:13-14



I think once we have addressed what we are truly looking for in life, we
end up with very simple answers about seemingly complex problems. The
story of a life is something more ethereal and important than a search
for money and status. Rather, a story of love, a search for meaning and
purpose sounds about right. Personally, I just think I have to read
more.



Gnite!

.. |image0| image:: http://www.icis.com/blogs/icis-chemicals-confidential/Morton%20Salt%20Girl.jpg
