Not Just a Scientist, Not Just a Doctor, Just a Human Being
###########################################################
:date: 2010-07-01 03:38:58
:author: jjangsangy
:category: text
:slug: 2010-07-01-not-just-a-scientist-not-just-a-doctor-just-a-human

Today was an interesting day. 



I was walking towards the Starbucks on Costa Verde Plaza this early
afternoon, looking to fix myself on an early bout of a hot caffeinated
beverage. But while I was passing the bookstore, I saw a bald headed man
sitting down on his cell phone. After hearing his voice, I clearly
recognized the man, he was a medicinal chemist at Takeda
Pharmaceuticals, the place I had interned exactly one year ago. So I
looked over to him, and once he saw me, he politely finished his phone
conversation and headed in my direction.



His name was John, and we were really close during my drug design
internship I feel like he was more of a mentor figure rather than a job
associates. We both shared similar enthusiasm for the sciences, and
would chat across the bench while prepping columns and setting up
reactions. Our conversations progressed through every avenue and subject
matter, from the inner workings of a pharmaceutical company to the
difference between Asian and American culture (lots of Japanese
scientists work at Takeda). However, in order to pursue my ambitions of
being a doctor, I decided not to continue working after my internship
period had expired. It was a bittersweet goodbye, but one in which I
needed to take. I didn't want to be a scientist, I wanted to be a
doctor.



Seeing him again, we reminisced of old times and filled each other on
life. Tomorrow, John would fly to Japan, to work at Takeda in Osaka. He
would be there for a year, and this being my last year at UCSD, the
chances of another random encounter would be slim. We chatted it up like
old times, and the conversation moved back and forth with ease. However,
at a moment in time, something interesting struck my mind. We were two
people, one following pursuits in medicinal chemistry, and another,
branching off into practical medicine, two different people, two
different paths, two different times, but yet having the same
conversation. The words were different, and the subject matter had
shifted, but on a macroscopic level, nothing has changed.



Now it may seem unclear what I am trying to say, but please be patient
and let me expound upon this topic a little bit more. Afterwards, we had
to part ways, and I got my overpriced stock of coffee and moved into the
bookstore for some quick reading. While browsing through badly cataloged
magazine files, I saw the back of a magazine entitled "HBR". The first
thing that flashed in my mind was Bromic Acid, and I would be extremely
wrong to think so, it was "Harvard Business Review". But I had already
picked up the book, so I sat down and gave it a half hearted read. 



I was never interested in business. In fact, I had some pre-conceived
notions about people who were more business oriented, and in fact, a lot
of these biases were expressed while reading through the magazine.
However, I came upon an article which made me think again. The article
was entitled "Management is Not a Profession", and in it, the author
discusses the propensity of people to internalize their career not as a
commodity, but as their personality.



What I realized from this article, is regardless of what people
specialize in, whether it is Business, Law, Medicine, Science etc.. From
reading a business article, I came to realize the extent to which we
compartmentalize. The propensity of generalize ourselves, others and
everything else in the world in order to understand it. However, it is
politically correct to make statements like "be yourself" and "love you
for who you are". Statements which offer an individual his/her own right
to be defined as himself and not the clothes on his skin or title near
his name. However, no matter how hard we try not to generalize, we
become enslaved by our own inability to understand without
simplification through demarcation. I am not a scientist, a doctor, but
I am a human being.




