Finding not Forgetting
######################
:date: 2010-04-07 04:17:56
:author: jjangsangy
:category: text
:slug: 2010-04-07-finding-not-forgetting

I think I've been too critical on myself in regards to my bad memory.
Forgetting to get important tasks done or keep friends accountable, my
inability to keep dates, names, faces, and the proverbial blank slate on
test day have riddled me with too many hardships to count. In fact, I
know many feel the same way with their own memory without solace from
others who aren't as forgetful or absentminded.



However, what I've come to realize is that specific memory is quite
unimportant. In fact, above all things that we use everyday, good
specific memory is a luxury. For most of us, the most important thing is
general memory. This is an accumulation of emotions and experiences
which paints a tone towards a single point in time. The ability to
recollect a specific time period when a special song is played is one
form of this general memory. Albeit, this may seem unimportant for those
who are flayed with absentmindedness or some mild form of ADD. However,
for many of us, we are able to remember most of the details in our lives
through this type of memory.



When studying, you can't memorize exact names and dates, but you can
pinpoint the exact page where the information is located in the
textbook. You don't know the street of your favorite restaurant, but
once you are there, you know exactly if you are at the right place. You
walk past an acquaintance, and although you don't remember their name,
you know exactly when, where and how you met. Sometimes we forget that
we can do this, and although it may seem mundane, isn't this what
matters? These little snippets of emotion become intertwined with our
memory, and thus become something greater than just memory; it becomes
life in recollection.Â 
