I'm Addicted to You: The Pathology of Love Dependence
#####################################################
:date: 2011-01-23 07:47:00
:author: jjangsangy
:category: text
:slug: 2011-01-23-im-addicted-to-you-the-pathology-of-love-dependence

Everyone has heard the story about drugs. **It's about the kid in high
school, the soft spoken one with the timid stature nobody really paid
much attention to.** He was polite and usually not very talkative. Until
his encounter with an addictive substance. His life would never be the
same, and this anecdote is repeated carrying with it, the adage against
drug use.



The negative stigma against addictive substances carries moral, social
and even political bearing. Cigarettes give you cancer, as well as a
hole in your throat. But the campaign against substance abuse is deeper
than most of us can even comprehend.\ **It's easy to place the cursed
mark against a chemical, a plant or the occasional smoker, but how about
the one you love?**



The pathology of substance abuse is a well researched department of
neurophysiology. We love studying the pleasure complex. The basis
of pavlovian conditioning is established on our knowledge of rewards
and penalties. **Drug abuse theory highjacks the natural mechanisms of
pleasure, and places an inanimate chemical or cigarette in its
place.**\ But lets step back a bit outside the box and flirt with the
idea, maybe the natural rewards have the same physiological and
addictive properties as any other substance. 



I don't think it's a far fetched idea to consider this contention. We've
heard Ke$ha sing "Your love, your love, your love, is my drug", and
we've seen the poor individuals struck with love sickness like a rehab
patient undergoing withdrawal. But aside from the symbolic juxtaposition
of words and literary devices, can we really think of love in medical
terms? Or, to go a step further, of other people?



| The ***Medical Definition***\ of addiction is based on several stages.
| **Tolerance:** After a period of continual exposure, each exposure
becomes less meaningful than the first.
| **Withdrawal:** Upon separation for an extended period of time, the
user starts to feel physical as well
as psychological withdrawal symptoms.
| **Priority:** The user places priority of the substance high enough,
that albeit negative societal and health factors, still continues to
pursue it. 



However, It's not just substance or behavioral addiction i'm talking
about, It's people addiction. Who are the addicts, who are the drugs?
**In the brain, it's all the same chemistry, but now we've substituted
our close friends and loved ones.** No longer are we able to take a
clear moral stance on the issue. I would argue, that many people face
this dilemma, and unbeknown to them the implications of their own
addiction.



For those who are addicted. The key is transcendence over the situation
and cutting the ailment from the source. It's not healthy to depend on
others for gratification and emotional well being. **It's easy to tell,
because you can feel the momentum of the emotional roller coaster
ride; day by day, latching from heart flutter to another significant
other.** Cutting the habit can only occur from deep introspection away
from these distractions.



It's an interesting perspective to take. I've recently been taking a lot
of courses related to addiction and pathology. Along with the
interactions I've been observing these past couple quarters, this
subject has become a recurring theme. Maybe this means I should pursue
something in neuroscience or psychiatry in the future. But only time can
tell.



However, one last remark. Unlike actual addiction pathology, there is a
problem with people addiction unlike most problems. And that is, both
the addict, and the drug are victims. The drug, although a person, is
not treated as such. **Epitomized and sought out for, objectification is
a shallow existence.** I would even say, the plight of the drug is a
much more grievous of a circumstance. Because the problem of the addict
is internal, while the problem of the drug is external. The only
solution, is for someone else to be the remedy. But who would be willing
to do that, for aid to a drug is to become addicted yourself.
