Photography Tip #1 - What Camera Should I Buy?
##############################################
:date: 2011-06-29 01:29:00
:aurhor: Sang Han
:tags: Camera, Photography Tips, Tutorial, Canon AE-1
:slug: 2011-06-29-photography-tip-1-what-camera-should-i-buy

So people have been asking me a lot of questions these days about
photography. One question in particular that I get almost every time is
about which cameras, lenses and other equipment they should purchase.
And a lot of times, I really don't feel like I can substantiate this
with an answer without first asking multiple questions myself. Like,

What do you take pictures of? People? Are you the person among your
group of friends who is always documenting the moment? Does everyone
expect you to be the one uploading and tagging shots on facebook??

Landscapes? Are you always bringing your camera when going on that next
adventure?

Art? Is normal photography too mainstream? Are you trying to express
some creative impulse? Do you hang around coffee shops with large framed
glasses and an ipad?

A lot of times photography is less about the equipment you own, and more
about the subject that you wish to put on the SD card (please don't
troll me about this). And in fact, you don't need to spend ridiculous
amounts of money to have the right camera. Most of the time, the best
camera is the one you own.

But in order to give an answer to this small rant. I think the question
here is worded incorrectly. Most of the time, people ask about camera
equipment, not because they want to buy something, but because they have
a desire to take better pictures. In this case, I would recommend buying
a **FILM CAMERA!**\ Sounds crazy, but it's not.

The problem with point-and-shoot cameras is in the name. The purpose is
to be able to point at a scene and just take a shot. Automation destroys
the desire to learn and makes photography less rewarding. So throwing
yourself into manual settings really opens up a new world for people. If
you can take a decent picture with a film camera, you will probably take
AMAZING ones in digital. Also, film bodies and lenses are dirt cheap.
You can pick them up from craigslist for <$100 and these used to be top
of the line professional equipment.

To give you a step in that direction, I wouldÂ recommend the Canon AE-1.

|image0|

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canon\_AE-1

You can find these on craigslist and ebay for $50 with a 50mm f/1.8 FD
fixed focal length lens. The fixed focal length means that the lens
doesn't zoom. But this is more of an advantage. It causes you to think
more about composition and the quality of pictures are outstanding. You
can also purchase a variety of other FD lenses, zoom and fixed for dirt
cheap. You just have to remember one thing, make sure to buy film!

Thanks for reading this little rant. It's a lot of fun for me to talk to
others about photography. If anyone has any questions at all that they
would like me to answer, let me know!

.. |image0| image:: /img/D3S_7456-1200.jpg
